docs: Update feed doc (#427)
unoplatform/uno.extensions: doc/Reactive.md

Neither `IObservable<T>` nor `IAsyncEnumerable<T>` have such metadata mechanism for produced values, that is the purpose of `IFeed<T>`.

With data, `IFeed<T>` currently does supports 3 main metadata (named “axis”):
* Error: If there is any exception linked to the current data
* Progress: We indicates that the current data is transient or final.
* Data: This represents the _data_ itself, but also adds an information about it. 
	It wraps the value into an `Option<T>` that adds the ability to make distinction between the different state of the value:
		- Some: Represents a valid data.
		- None: Indicates that a value has been loaded, but should be consider as empty, and we should not be rendered as is in the UI. In our example, when you cannot ship to the selected country.
		- Undefined: This represents a missing value, i.e. there is no info about the data yet. Typically this is because we are asynchronously loading it.

> Here is a diagram of common messages produced by a feed when asynchronously loading data:

Author: Eheh, pending on design ;) But you're right!

# Reactive
## Concept

> When we are asynchronously loading a data, the standard pattern is to use a `Task<T>`. A _task_ represents a data that will be available in the future:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When asynchronously loading a data, the standard pattern is to use a `Task<T>`. A _task_ represents data which  will be available in the future:
```

```csharp
public async Task<decimal> GetShippingCost(CancellationToken ct)
{
	var country = SelectedCountry;
	var cost = await _shippingService.GetShippingCost(country);

	return cost;
}
```

> The issue is that `Task<T>` represents only one value, you must manually re-fetch the data each time one of its dependencies is updated. For instance, here, each time the user updates the selected country, you have to manually re-invoked the `GetShippingCost` and update the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An issue here is that `Task<T>` represents only one value, data must manually be fetched again each time one of its dependencies is updated. For instance, here, each time the user updates the selected country, `GetShippingCost` has to be manually re-invoked and the UI updated.
```

A solution to this would be to use `IObservable<T>` or `IAsyncEnumerable<T>`. Both are representing a stream of value. The example above can be written like this using `IObservable<T>`:
```csharp
public IObservable<Country> SelectedCountry { get; }

public IObservable<decimal> ShippingCost => _selectedCountry.SelectAsync(country => _shippingService.GetShippingCost(country));
```
Or with `IAsyncEnumerable`:
```csharp
public async IAsyncEnumerable<decimal> GetShippingCost([EnumerationCancellation] CancellationToken ct = default)
{
	await foreach (var country in SelectedCountry)
	{
		yield return await _shippingService.GetShippingCost(country);
	}
}
```

> But in both cases, if there is any exception the stream will be broken. This means that for instance in example above, if we cannot compute the shipping cost for a given country for any reason (network issue, invalid country, …) the stream of data will be terminated, and selecting another country won’t have any effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But in both cases, if there is any exception the stream will be broken. This means that for instance in example above, if it is not possible to compute the shipping cost for a given country for any reason (network issue, invalid country, …) the stream of data will be terminated, and selecting another country won’t have any effect.
```

Also, when a dependency is being updated and we may need to do some asynchronously work, like update a projection. In our example, we asynchronously get the updated shipping cost when country is changed. From a UI perspective, it would be great to have a visual indication that the shipping cost is being re-computed for the newly chosen country.

> Neither `IObservable<T>` nor `IAsyncEnumerable<T>` have such metadata mechanism for produced values, that the purpose if `IFeed<T>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Neither `IObservable<T>` nor `IAsyncEnumerable<T>` have such metadata mechanism for produced values, that is the purpose of `IFeed<T>`.
```

> With the data, currently `IFeed<T>` does supports 2 mains metadata (named “axis”):

Reviewer 2: This list isn't being formatted correctly when viewing the doc on github

> With the data, currently `IFeed<T>` does supports 2 mains metadata (named “axis”):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With data, `IFeed<T>` currently does supports 2 main metadata (named “axis”):
```

•	Error: If there is any exception linked to the current data
•	Progress: We indicates that the current data is transient or final.
But we do also have a metadata about the data itself:
•	Some: The _feed_ does have a valid data.
•	None: There is no data to display. In our example, when you cannot ship to the selected country.

> •	Undefined: There is no info about the data, typically because we are asynchronously loading it.

Reviewer 2: The text says there are 2 axis but then lists 5 items in the list. Which are the two axis and how do they correlate to the other items in the list

> Here a diagram of the common messages produced by a feed when asynchronously loading a data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a diagram of common messages produced by a feed when asynchronously loading data:
```

> Keep in mind that this is only an example of the common case, but each _axis_ is independent and can change from one state to another. There is no restriction between states.

## API
The main API provided by this package is [`IFeed<T>`](https://github.com/unoplatform/uno.extensions/blob/main/src/Uno.Extensions.Reactive/Core/IFeed.cs) which represents a stream of _data_.

> Unlike `IObservable<T>` or `IAsyncEnumerable<T>`, the _feed_ streams are specialized to handle business data objects which are expected to be rendered by the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike `IObservable<T>` or `IAsyncEnumerable<T>`, _feed_ streams are specialized to handle business data objects which are expected to be rendered by the UI.
```

> A _feed_ is a sequence of _messages_ that contains such immutable _data_ with some metadata like its loading progress and/or errors raised while loading it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _feed_ is a sequence of _messages_ which contains immutable _data_ with metadata such as its loading progress and/or errors raised while loading it.
```

> Everything is about the _data_, this means that a _feed_ will never fail, it will instead report any error encountered with the data itself, remaining active for future updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Everything is about _data_, this means that a _feed_ will never fail. It will instead report any error encountered with the data itself, remaining active for future updates.
```

Each [`Message<T>`](https://github.com/unoplatform/uno.extensions/blob/main/src/Uno.Extensions.Reactive/Core/Message.cs) contains the current and the previous state, as well as information about what changed.

> The means that a message is self-sufficient to get the current data, but also gives enough information to update from the previous state in an optimized way without rebuilding every thing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that a message is self-sufficient to get the current data, but also gives enough information to update from the previous state in an optimized way without rebuilding everything.
```

Is everything the data from the message ?

The `IListFeed<T>` is _feed_ specialized for handling collections.
It allows the declaration of an operator directly on items instead of dealing with the list itself.
A _list feed_ goes in `None` if the list does not have any elements.

To create an `IListFeed<T>`, on the state `ListFeed` class, the same `Async`, `AsyncEnumerable` and `Create` methods found on `Feed` can be used.

There are also a few dedicated operators:

### AsListFeed
This allows the creation of a _list feed_ from a _feed of list_.

```csharp
public IListFeed<WeatherInfo> Forecast => Feed
	.Async(async ct => new []
	{
		await _weatherService.GetWeatherForecast(DateTime.Today.AddDays(1), ct),
		await _weatherService.GetWeatherForecast(DateTime.Today.AddDays(2), ct),
	})
	.Select(list => list.ToImmutableList())
	.AsListFeed();
```

### AsFeed
This does the opposite of `AsListFeed` and converts a _list feed_ to a _feed of list_.

```csharp
public IFeed<IImmutableList<WeatherInfo>> ForecastFeed => Forecast.AsFeed();
```

### Where
This operator allows the filtering of _items_.
If all _items_ of the collection are filtered out, the resulting feed will go in _none_ state.

```csharp

> public IListFeed<WeatherInfo> HighTempDays => ForecastFeed.Where(weather => weather.Temperature >= 28);

Author: Well that the purpose of the `ListFeed`. It allows us to re-invoke that delegate only for new items for instance. Later we can add an operator that allows you to deal with the list itself if needed, but I'm not sure of the interest yet. Do you have a use-case in mind?

public async IAsyncEnumerable<Message<string>> GetCurrentCity([EnumeratorCancellation] CancellationToken ct = default)
{
	var message = Message<string>.Initial;
	var city = Option<string>.Undefined();
	var error = default(Exception);
	while (!ct.IsCancellationRequested)
	{
		try
		{
			city = await _locationService.GetCurrentCity(ct);
			error = default;
		}
		catch (Exception ex)
		{
			error = ex;
		}

		yield return message = message.With().Data(city).Error(error);
		await Task.Delay(TimeSpan.FromHours(1), ct);
	}
}
```

## Usage in applications

The recommended use for feeds is only in view models.

The reactive framework allows you to design state-less view models, focusing on the presentation logic. 
Your view models only have to request in their constructors the user _ inputs_ that are expected from the view. Inputs could be:
* An `IInput<T>` to get _data_ from the view (e.g. for 2-way bindings);
* An `ICommandBuilder` for the "trigger" inputs.

In order to easily interact with the binding engine in a performant way, a `BindableXXX` class is automatically generated. It is this class that will hold the state and which **has to been set as `DataContext` of your page**.

> > Note: The bindable counterpart of a class will be created when the class name ends with "ViewModel".

Reviewer 3: not using `[!NOTE]` tag?

> You can customize that behavior using the `[ReactiveBindable]` attribute.

> [!NOTE]
> For easier View Model creation, public properties will also be accessible on the `BindableXXX` class as long as there is no name conflict between these properties and any constructor's _input_. You can also access to the view model itself through the `Model` property.

### Display some data in the UI (VM to View)

To render a _feed_ in the UI, you only have to expose it through a public property:
```csharp
public IFeed<Product[]> Products = Feed.Async(_productService.GetProducts);
```

Then in your page, you can add a `FeedView`:
```xaml
<Page 
	x:Class="MyProject.MyPage"
	xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2006/xaml/presentation"
	xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2006/xaml"
	xmlns:uer="using:Uno.Extensions.Reactive.UI">

> <reactive:FeedView Source="{Binding Products}">
> 	<DataTemplate>
> 		<ListView ItemsSource="{Binding Data}" />
> 	</DataTemplate>
> </reactive:FeedView>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<uer:FeedView Source="{Binding Products}">
	<DataTemplate>
		<ListView ItemsSource="{Binding Data}" />
	</DataTemplate>
</uer:FeedView>
```

* As in functional programming, _data_ is **optional**. A message may contain _data_ (a.k.a. `Some`), the information about the fact that there is no _data_ (a.k.a. `None`) or nothing at all, if for instance the loading failed (a.k.a. `Undefined`).
* Public _feeds_ are expected to be exposed in property getters. A caching system embedded in reactive framework will then ensure to not re-create a new _feed_ on each get.

> ## Sources: How to create a _feed_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sources: How to create a feed
```

> You can build a _feed_ from different sources. Main entry point to do that is using the static class `Feed`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can build a _feed_ from different sources. The main entry point is the static class `Feed`:
```

> Assuming this given `IWeatherService` and `ILocationService`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given an `IWeatherService` and `ILocationService`:
```

```csharp
public interface IWeatherService
{
	/// <summary>
	/// Asynchronously gets the current weather
	/// </summary>
	Task<WeatherInfo> GetCurrentWeather(CancellationToken ct);

	/// <summary>
	/// Asynchronously gets the details of a weather alert.
	/// </summary>
	Task<string> GetAlertDetails(WeatherAlert alert, CancellationToken ct);

	/// <summary>
	/// Asynchronously gets the weather forecast for the given day
	/// </summary>
	Task<WeatherInfo> GetWeatherForecast(DateTime date, CancellationToken ct);
}

public record WeatherInfo(double Temperature, WeatherAlert? Alert);

public record WeatherAlert(Guid Id, string? Title);

public interface ILocationService
{
	/// <summary>
	/// Asynchronously gets the name of the current city.
	/// </summary>
	Task<string> GetCurrentCity(CancellationToken ct);

	/// <summary>
	/// Gets teh list of all supported cities.
	/// </summary>
	Task<ImmutableList<string>> GetCities(CancellationToken ct);
}
```

### Async

> Creates a feed from an async method. The loaded data can be refreshed using a `Signal` trigger that will re-invoke the async method.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps move the second sentence to after the csharp code and then provide an example of signallying for a refresh

Reviewer: The `Signal` word should also be explained.

```csharp
private IWeatherService _weatherService;

public IFeed<WeatherInfo> Weather => Feed.Async(async ct => await _weatherService.GetCurrentWeather(ct));
```

### AsyncEnumerable

> This adapts an `IAsyncEnumerable<T>` into a _feed_

Reviewer: Explain why we need this.

```csharp
private IWeatherService _weatherService;

public IFeed<WeatherInfo> Weather => Feed.AsyncEnumerable(() => GetWeather());

private async IAsyncEnumerable<WeatherInfo> GetWeather([EnumeratorCancellation] CancellationToken ct = default)
{

> 	while (!ct.IsCancellationRequested)

Reviewer 2: How is the IFeed cancelled (which I assume is how the IsCancellationRequested gets set to true)?

	{
		yield return await _weatherService.GetCurrentWeather(ct);
		await Task.Delay(TimeSpan.FromHours(1), ct);
	}
}
```

### Create

> This gives you the ability to create your own _feed_ by dealing directly with _messages_.

Reviewer: Not sure about "specialized", maybe "custom"?

```suggestion
This gives you the ability to create a specialized _feed_ by dealing directly with _messages_.
```

> > This is designed for advanced usage and should probably not be used directly in apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> This is designed for advanced usage and should probably not be used directly in apps.
```

Reviewer: Also, why is this advanced? Can we link to another section which deals with these advanced scenarios?

```csharp
public IFeed<WeatherInfo> Weather => Feed.Create(GetWeather);

private async IAsyncEnumerable<Message<WeatherInfo>> GetWeather([EnumeratorCancellation] CancellationToken ct = default)
{
	var message = Message<WeatherInfo>.Initial;
	var weather = Option<WeatherInfo>.Undefined();
	var error = default(Exception);
	while (!ct.IsCancellationRequested)
	{
		try
		{
			weather = await _weatherService.GetCurrentWeather(ct);
			error = default;
		}
		catch (Exception ex)
		{
			error = ex;
		}

		yield return message = message.With().Data(weather).Error(error);
		await Task.Delay(TimeSpan.FromHours(1), ct);
	}
}
```

## Operators: How to interact with a feed

> You can apply some operators directly on any _feed_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can apply some operators directly on any _feed_ to filter, select, map messages.
```

> > Note : You can use the linq syntax with feeds:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> You can use the linq syntax with feeds:
```

> ```csharp

> > public IFeed<string> Value => from value in _values

Reviewer 2: Is _values an IFeed?

> 	where value == 42
> 	select value.ToString();
> ```

### Where
Applies a predicate on the _data_.

Be aware that unlike `IEnumerable`, `IObservable` and `IAsyncEnumerable`, if the predicate returns false, a message with a `None` _data_ will be published.

> ```csharp

Reviewer 2: Is there a reason for switching between syntax choices? Earlier you used "from value in _values" and now "Weather.Where(....". Are both supported? One better than the other?

Author: None better, I used the "linq query syntax" above only for the example which shows that this syntax is also supported, but all other examples are using the "regular" syntax.

public IFeed<WeatherAlert> Alert => Weather
	.Where(weather => weather.Alert is not null)
	.Select(weather => weather.Alert!);
```

### Select
Synchronously projects each data from the source feed.

> ```csharp
> public IFeed<WeatherAlert> Alert => Weather
> 	.Where(weather => weather.Alert is not null)
> 	.Select(weather => weather.Alert!);
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```csharp
public IFeed<WeatherInfo> Alert => Weather
	.Where(weather => weather.Alert is not null);
```
```
Remove projection since this is shown in the next csharp block

Author: A would agree, but I was not able to find an example that really make sense without the projection :/

### SelectAsync

> Asynchronously project each data from the source feed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Asynchronously projects each data from the source feed.
```

```csharp
public IFeed<string> AlertDetails => Alert
	.SelectAsync(async (alert, ct) => await _weatherService.GetAlertDetails(alert, ct));
```

### GetAwaiter

> This allows you to use `await` on a _feed_, for instance when you want to capture the current value to use it in a command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows the use of `await` on a _feed_, for instance when you want to capture the current value to use it in a command.
```

```csharp
public async ValueTask ShareAlert(CancellationToken ct)
{

> 	var alert = await Alert;

Reviewer 2: It might be worth specifying that 'alert' is a 'WeatherAlert' - currently the read has to scroll back up and find Alert and then work out what the return value type is

	await _shareService.Share(alert, ct);
}
```

## ListFeed: _Feed_ of collections of _items_

> The `IListFeed<T>` is _feed_ that is speciliazed to handle collections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `IListFeed<T>` is _feed_ specialized for handling collections.
```

> It allows you to declare opreator directly on items instead of dealing with the list itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It allows the declaration of an operator directly on items instead of dealing with the list itself.
```

> A _list feed_ goes in _none_ if the list does not have any elements.

Reviewer: It's a type or a method, right? Let's use code markup for those.
```suggestion
A _list feed_ goes in `None` if the list does not have any elements.
```

> To create an `IlistFeed<T>`, on the state `ListFeed` class, you have the same `Async`, `AsyncEnumerable` and `Create` methods that you have for the `Feed`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create an `IListFeed<T>`, on the state `ListFeed` class, the same `Async`, `AsyncEnumerable` and `Create` methods found on `Feed` can be used.
```

> You will also have few dedicated operators:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are also a few dedicated operators:
```

### AsListFeed

> This allows you to create a _list feed_ from a _feed of list_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows the creation of a _list feed_ from a _feed of list_.
```

```csharp
public IListFeed<WeatherInfo> Forecast => Feed
	.Async(async ct => new []
	{
		await _weatherService.GetWeatherForecast(DateTime.Today.AddDays(1), ct),
		await _weatherService.GetWeatherForecast(DateTime.Today.AddDays(2), ct),
	})
	.Select(list => list.ToImmutableList())
	.AsListFeed();
```

### AsFeed

> This does the opposite, and converts a _list feed_  to a _feed of list_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This does the opposite of `AsListFeed` and converts a _list feed_ to a _feed of list_.
```

```csharp
public IFeed<IImmutableList<WeatherInfo>> ForecastFeed => Forecast.AsFeed();
```

### Where

> This operator allows you to filter _items_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This operator allows the filtering of _items_.
```

If all _items_ of the collection are filtered out, the resulting feed will go in _none_ state.

```csharp
public IListFeed<WeatherInfo> HighTempDays => ForecastFeed.Where(weather => weather.Temperature >= 28);
```

> ## State: How to maintain and update a _data_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## State: How to maintain and update data
```

> Unlike a _feed_ a `IState<T>`, as it name suggest it, is state full. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike a _feed_ a `IState<T>`, as its name suggest, is state full. 
```

> This is designed for advanced usage and should probably not be used directly in apps.

```csharp
public IState<string> City => State.Create(this, GetCurrentCity);

public async IAsyncEnumerable<Message<string>> GetCurrentCity([EnumeratorCancellation] CancellationToken ct = default)
{
	var message = Message<string>.Initial;
	var city = Option<string>.Undefined();
	var error = default(Exception);
	while (!ct.IsCancellationRequested)
	{
		try
		{
			city = await _locationService.GetCurrentCity(ct);
			error = default;
		}
		catch (Exception ex)
		{
			error = ex;
		}

		yield return message = message.With().Data(city).Error(error);
		await Task.Delay(TimeSpan.FromHours(1), ct);
	}
}
```

## Usage in applications

The recommended use for feeds is only in view models.

The reactive framework allows you to design state-less view models, focusing on the presentation logic. 
Your view models only have to request in their constructors the user _ inputs_ that are expected from the view. Inputs could be:
* An `IInput<T>` to get _data_ from the view (e.g. for 2-way bindings);
* An `ICommandBuilder` for the "trigger" inputs.

> Then in order to easily interact with the binding engine in a performant way, a `BindableXXX` class is automatically generated. It is this class that will hold the state and which **has to been set as `DataContext` of your page**.

Author: ```suggestion
In order to easily interact with the binding engine in a performant way, a `BindableXXX` class is automatically generated. It is this class that will hold the state and which **has to been set as `DataContext` of your page**.
```
